
   GENERAL BUGS:
          Sometimes, changing the callsign in the CALLSIGN field doesn't "hold"; 
             the previous callsign is reset.

             NOT A BUG; this happens if you don't ENTER the new callsign.

          WINDOWS BUG weird behavior on creation of backup files
                  (delete non-existent filename in DOS window--seems to fix it)
          Band and mode must be typed separately, one per entry, with no 
             other 'exchange' elements (now works correctly in BAND field; you can
             type something like b40 PH; but not in ENTRY field)

          A number of contests (most notably nasprint and naqp) 'redefine'
             some states/provs.  This means the subtractive mult display
             doesn't go down to zero correctly.  For example, you could work a 
             "sweep" and still show DC as an unworked multiplier (because DC isn't 
             a valid multiplier, and is mapped into MD by the scorer, so it's never 
             removed from the "needed" list).  Could be fixed easily enough
             by using a contest-specific state/province list, but I prefer
             a singe list.  (Why?  This is sheer laziness)

   CQWW:  Reading from the log file resets "low" RS (r <= 3)
             (fixable with "back door" into exchange when reading log)
   SS:
   NAQP:  CAN force the QTH of non-domestic, BUT isn't counted as a mult
              correctly.  (SHould only be an issue if the call is NOT in 
              normal--portable first--order)
          If you edit a non-domestic entry, the QTH (which defaults to the prefix--e.g.
              vp9 for Bermuda) can be re-parsed as the callsign.
   ARRLDX:  DO NOT work anyone running 59 or 599 watts!
   ARRLTEN: 
   ARRL160:
   CQ160:
   VHFSS: 
   Generic:
   IOTA:
   IARU:
   CQ WPX:  ONCE (and only once) saw a mult counted twice.  Couldn't figure
            out why, and can't repeat the behavior.  
   CAL QP: 
   RU DX: Some multipliers were being handled strangely.  I don't think this is a bug in the
          software itself, but perhaps in the data (the special russian cty.dat file). 
   General log:  See 2nd under NAQP.
   MISSING FEATURES:  
          Doesn't handle single-band entries (contacts allowed 
             on all bands, but only some scored).  Fairly easy...
          No multi-trans support (MAJOR ADDITION)
          Soapbox editor...
          Header consistency check upon write...
   LONG TERM ISSUES (all right, call them bugs--they will be bugs in the future):
          VERY partial attempt to implement tx numbers
          LOTS of North American assumptions built in--would it be hard to create
              a DX version?
   TRUTH AND BEAUTY:
          The mode is carried in the log entry AND both sides of the 
             exchange--I assume all unnecessary.
          Added a back door to the exchange to allow it to print a different
             sent and rcvd exchanges.  Turns out to be unnecessary.
          Since the exchange now holds a static props, unnecessary to 
             pass a props into addToExchange when creating the sent exchange.
 